# Using Point Shares Metrics as Descriptors of Defensive Impact in the Stanley Cup Playoffs

This project is the product of a summer internship through the Colorado State University statistics department that allowed me to pursue an individual  sports analytics project of my interest. The primary focus of this project was to formally test the saying 'defense wins championships' in the context of the Stanley Cup playoffs using point shares metrics. 

This repository contains two scraping scripts, two calculation scripts, an analysis script and six .rds and six .csv files. To see the results of this code and analysis, first the two scraping scripts must be run in their completeness. If the .rds and .csv files do not already exist in the `data` folder, they will be written there. Each script (one for the Stanley Cup Playoffs and one for the NHL regular season) results in a team data table, a skaters data table, and a goalies data table. These tables contain all the necessary data for later metric calculations. Next, the two calculation scripts must be run. Here, point share values are calculated as well as other metrics calculated from point shares. The .csv files are overwritten. Unfortunately, due to bugs in the scraping process, regualar season team statistics are incomplete and so only a seven season sample is contained in the `team_reg` table. Finally, the analysis script can be run to view plots and models associated with this project. For viewing convenience, the scraping and calculation scripts have been knitted to PDFs and stored in the `pdfs` folder. 
